# Django vs Qt Comparison

## Background Tasks
With our current state of the project, I do not think we are going to get around asynchronous tasks. For example, the EEG-Data still needs to be monitored and written in the H5-File while the Frontend remains responsive.

- **Django**: As far as I am concerned, this works with **Celery** with **Redis** or **RabbitMQ**. For the live data feed to the Frontend, it is not unlikely that **WebSockets** are needed.
- **Qt**: This will work with `asyncio` and `QEventLoop`, as demonstrated in my sample application.

I think this is where we will have the most difficulty—not with the Frontend, to be quite honest.

---

## Live Refreshing
This is where Django would be really ugly, in my opinion. Massive overhead is going to be generated by sending HTTP messages from one process to another on the same computer. While it is possible, this would never be implemented like this in a production environment. I think you could circumvent that by using **WebSockets** or **Django channels**, but it adds complexity.

- **Qt**: As the application is just one part (not separate client and server), the transfer from GUI to model and vice versa is trivial.

---

## IFrame API
- **Django**: This would, of course, be more convenient in Django.
- **Qt**: As demonstrated previously, it is not much of a problem with **QtWebEngine**.

---

## Environment Flexibility and Developer Comfort
This is, of course, a very subjective point. In my opinion, which is, of course, biased, the boilerplate generated by using Django is not worth the more openly available basic tutorials.

- Both **Qt** and **Django** come with plenty of plugins and all we need, so there is not really an argument here.
- **Compatibility**: Better in Django.

However, other imports are much more restrictive.

---

## User Comfort
- I think having a separate interface from your browser is cleaner.
- Not having to separately start an application just for it to open in the browser is more convenient, in my opinion.

---

## Project Structure
- **Qt**: For a Qt application, I propose MVC.
- **Django**: Already sets the structure (MTV) not very flexibel with it either

Also Qt has better native cross-platform support for desktop apps (Windows, macOS, Linux)

